Maki, a fighter pilot nearing retirement, encounters a glowing UFO on one of his last sorties. His plane crashes, but Maki himself miraculously survives. Maki is later abducted by the military for observation, on the orders of Mizuhara, a scientist. Mizuhara had previously been studying another extra-terrestrial life form, called "The One," and believes that Maki may be playing host to another life form of the same kind. The One infected a human and took over its body, turning itself into a vicious lizard-like creature. Maki is put under observation partly out of concern for his own well-being, and also to lure The One into a trap.

The One appears and the military tries to put it down, to no avail. The One instead grows larger and more powerful, and sends the military into full retreat. Maki becomes aware of a new power growing inside of himself, and transforms into a gigantic humanoid, who fights The One. Mizuhara realizes that this humanoid tries to protect humans from The One's attacks, although it consumes energy much more quickly. The One reveals that because he has completely consumed his human host, he has more sustained power. The other alien, code named "The Next," has refused to consume Maki, and as a consequence fights on less energy. The Next manages to fend off The One, before reverting Maki back to his original form.

Mizuhara tries to use Maki for further operations meant to lure and engage The One. Maki refuses, but is not in a position to resist the military's quarantine on him. Maki and Mizuhara trace The One to the sewers under Tokyo, where another fight begins. The One has grown substantially larger, and The Next must adapt to match its strength. As the fight rages on, The Next grows weaker and weaker. Maki agrees to allow The Next to use more of his own energy, at the risk of consuming Maki completely. With this power up, The Next is able to overcome The One and utterly destroy it. Afterwards, The Next, indebted to Maki for his sacrifice and bravery, decides to surrender its own life energy to revive Maki. Maki returns to his normal life, and The Next, dubbed "Ultraman" by Mizuhara, disappears.