In the city of Jesus Town, the populace is strictly controlled by the delusional Gurjev. Gurjev seeks to create a utopia by removing all elements that would disrupt the peace, including the suppression of human emotion through microchip implants. His rule is challenged when a robot appears and breaks into Jesus Town. Gurjev sends his men to destroy it, but they are powerless against the robot's might. The robot is taken in by a group of freedom fighters, led by Kaoru, who is taken with the robot's appearance. Gurjev consults with Michael, another robot and his second-in-command. Gurjev reveals that he created the invading robot, Hakaider, many years ago to keep the order in the early days of Jesus Town. But Hakaider grew wild and reckless, and Gurjev was forced to put him down. However, before he could have him dismantled, he was secreted away by rebel scientists. Now Hakaider has awoken and seeks revenge against his maker.

Kaoru tries to convince Hakaider to join her cause, but Hakaider is disillusioned by her companions, who are no less corrupt than Gurjev. Gurjev's forces attack the rebels, slaughtering them, and apparently destroying Hakaider in the process. Kaoru is left alive, until Michael arrives and mortally wounds her. Kaoru stumbles through the streets of Jesus Town and meets Hakaider, who has survived the attack. Hakaider delivers her to a hidden oasis, where she dies. Hakaider is moved by Kaoru's passing and makes his move.

Hakaider infiltrates Gurjev's headquarters, destroying most of his soldiers with a well placed shot to the building's main power generator. When Hakaider reaches Gurjev's control room, he duels with Michael. A brutal fight follows, which Hakaider wins when he decapitates Michael. Gurjev attempts to woo Hakaider back to his side, but Hakaider refuses. Gurjev unleashes a new, much larger robot on Hakaider. The robot manages to dismember Hakaider, but fails to account for Hakaider's weapon of last resort: a triple-barreled cannon hidden in his chest. Hakaider emerges victorious once again, and confronts Gurjev. At first he intends to let Gurjev live, but when Gurjev attempts to shoot him in the back, Hakaider quickly kills him.