<!-- Aragami (2003) -->

Two wounded samurai find refuge in a secluded shrine at the top of a mountain. One samurai awakes in the presence of an older, ragged samurai and his assistant. The samurai learns that his companion has passed away. The older samurai insists that the younger samurai stay the night in his home. A fierce storm is raging outside, and there may still be enemy soldiers about. The younger samurai agrees.

The older samurai tells the legend of the mountain, that a vicious, warrior being known as Aragami lives on the mountain. The older samurai then announces that he is that Aragami. The younger samurai is incredulous, but the older samurai demonstrates his fighting prowess and supernatural abilities. He also reveals that he had his servant prepare the liver of the dead samurai for the young samurai's dinner. After eating this specially prepared liver, the young samurai is also bestowed with the same strength and quasi-immortality as Aragami. Aragami offers the young samurai an ultimatum: since the young samurai is in Aragami's debt, Aragami demands the samurai slay him and end his extended life, in a fight to the death.

Aragami and the samurai duel, and Aragami deals a killing stroke to the samurai. Disappointed, Aragami resigns himself to another long wait before his next challenger. Suddenly the immortal power awakens in the samurai, and he revives to resume the duel. Aragami and the samurai clash, only this time the samurai deals the killing blow to Aragami, finally laying the immortal warrior to rest. The samurai takes Aragami's place in the shrine, and becomes the new master of the mountain. Until the next challenger arrives...