<!-- Espy (1974) -->

ESPY is a secret organization composed of psychic agents tasked with protecting world leaders. They are assigned to protect the Prime Minister of the embattled nation of Baltonia. Prior delegates from Baltonia were murdered under extraordinary circumstances, leading ESPY to believe that they are dealing with an adversary who also wields psychic powers. Agent Tamura is dispatched to Turkey to track down a lead. Tamura is captured and subjected to repeated electric shocks, which neutralize his psychic powers. He learns that their enemy is a psychic named Ulrov, who believes that psychics are the supreme morals beings on the planet and that ordinary humans must be destroyed to preserve the peace. He plans to disrupt the Baltonian peace talks and precipitate a nuclear exchange between the superpowers, exterminating humanity so that his psychic race can take over. Tamura is disposed of at sea, where he is rescued by ESPY.

Tamura and rookie agent Miki are sent to St. Moritz to protect the Prime Minister. A group of assassins kill the Prime Minister's double, and Miki eliminates the assassins. Miki is shaken by the ordeal and placed on administrative leave. With ESPY's roster quickly diminishing they are hard pressed to keep the real Prime Minster safe. Ulrov attempts to have Miki neutralized as well. Tamura tries to rescue Miki and is placed in yet another trap. Pushed to his limit, Tamura regains his psychic powers and teleports to the conference in St. Moritz in time to save the Prime Minister from another assassination.

The ESPY agents converge on Ulrov's remote mansion, and a psychic battle ensues. Tamura defeats Ulrov by causing flames to billow from the fireplace and smother Ulrov. The ESPY agents flee before the mansion is completely destroyed by the blaze.