Chagawa, a struggling novelist, is trying to raise Junnosuke in the quaint, tight-knit community of Third Street. He continues to pine for his erstwhile fiancée, Hiromi, who is working as an exotic dancer to pay off her debts; she has also being courted by one of her patrons who urges her to move to Osaka. Junnosuke's biological father, a stern businessman named Kawabuchi, visits Chagawa and insists that he take custody of his son. When the denizens of Third Street resist him, he agrees to let Junnosuke remain, so long as he is properly cared for.

Chagawa learns that Junnosuke has been going without food at school because he's been using his lunch money to cover the rising cost of rice for the household. Kawabuchi learns of this, too, and gives Chagawa an ultimatum: if Chagawa can't provide for Junnosuke by the time he returns from his business trip, he will take custody of Junnosuke. Chagawa decides to reenter the Akutagawa Literature Prize contest; his submission is announced as one of the finalists, and is widely published in the literature journal.

Kawabuchi returns on the day the winner of the prize is announced. Chagawa is distraught to learn that he did not win the grand prize, although his friends on Third Street vouch for his talent. Nevertheless, Chagawa agrees to honor his agreement with Kawabuchi and says goodbye to Junnosuke. Hiromi suddenly appears in Third Street; she had read Chagawa's submission and realized it was a love letter to her, and abandoned her plans for Osaka to be with him. Kawabuchi is moved by their reunion, and allows Junnosuke to stay with them, satisfied that he is being raised in a loving household.