<!-- Naoki Sato -->

Prolific composer who rose to prominence in the 2000s, primarily through his work in anime, video games, before breaking into films ca. 2004. His style has a distinctly Western flair while retaining classic Japanese sensibilities. Sato excels at composing brash, bold action music, but he is notable for his softer, entirely string driven themes as well. His early film works had a marked "video game" feel, but his style has matured in the 10+ years he's been active in the industry. He found early success collaborating with director Takashi Yamazaki on the hit film _Always_ (2005), earning a Japanese Academy Award for his efforts. He would be nominated for another for Yamazaki's _The Eternal Zero_ (2013).

Sato educated himself in various genres of music while studying at Tokyo College of Music. While his film work tends to be firmly rooted in the orchestra, he's not above injecting rock, hip hop, or ethnic styles into his compositions. He is well known for composing the music for the anime _X_ (the "Destiny" cue in particular is a favorite of the AMV crowd). He's also worked on _We Are Pretty Cure_, _Eureka Seven_, _Assassination Classroom_ and _Heroic Age_. He worked with vocalist Lisa Gerrard (of _Gladiator_ fame) on the main theme for the wildly popular _Ryomaden_ television series. He also scored a number of documentaries broadcast on NHK.

Aside from Yamazaki, who he has worked with since _Always_, Sato has also collaborated with Shinji Higuchi (_Lorelei_, _Hidden Fortress: The Last Princess_), Eiichiro Hasumi (_Umizaru_, _Assassination Classroom_), and Keishi Otomo (_Ryomaden_, _Rurouni Kenshin_).